Transcription guidelines
=======================

Inter-rater reliability assessment (from RR)
--------------------

In our registered report we indicate:

"3.2 Inter-rater reliability -- Initially 5% randomly selected observations
from the first 60 participants (i.e., 624 data points) will be transcribed and
coded independently by two raters who are native speakers of Swedish. If the
inter-rater agreement is ≥ 95%, each of the raters will proceed to code
separate subsets of the complete data set. If inter-rater agreement is < 95%,
disagreements will be inspected and resolved through discussion, so that coding
criteria become shared among raters. Then a separate 5% sample of the data will
be coded, and the procedure repeated until inter-rater agreement is ≥ 95%. The
number of rounds needed and the inter-rater agreement at each round will be
reported." (p.25)


Transcription guidelines
----------

1. Transcribe only target words into the *transcriptions* column; things like
"I don't know", "something", etc. should not be transcribed.
2. Separate every word with a simple space; don't use any other signs.
3. Use the *comment* column for every kind of remark or doubt about the
transcription; this column can also contain information for the transcribed
(e.g. "revisit this one") that can later on be removed.
4. The words should be transcribed in the order they are remembered. However,
if a participant says some words (e.g., "jogga löpa") and then says something
like "oh and kliva, but kliva came first", then the intended order by the
participant should be reproduced (in this case: "kliva jogga löpa").
5. If one of the sound recordings generated by Python is of such a bad quality
that the words cannot be heard clearly, use the mp3 recording which generally
has better sound.
6. Transcriptions should in general be faithful to what participants say, but
certain cases are tricky. Here are the most common scenarios and how they should
be handled:
	a) If a participant says a word that is similar to the target but constitutes
	a different word, transcribe what the participant said. E.g., "stappla" is a
	target word but a participant might say "stapla", which is also a Swedish
	word. If the participant clearly says "stapla", this is what should be
	transcribed.
	b) If a participant utters a *non-word* that is similar to the target, then
	the transcriber needs to decide if it is likely to be the result of a
	mispronunciation or any type of speech error. If the answer is yes, then the
	actual target word should be transcribed; if the answer is no, then the
	uttered non-word should be transcribed.
	c) In cases where it is impossible to decide if the participant said the
	target word or a very similar word or non-word (cases a and b above), the
	transcriber should apply the benefit of the doubt and transcribe the target
	word.


Git
---

Use the branch "interrater_agreement" for the transcriptions that will be used
to compute inter-rater reliability.


How to start the python script "annotate.py"
----------------------------------------

Make sure all sound files that must be transcribed are located in the following
folder of the git repo:
"2018_replication_sheb-pulv2013/1908_sp13_replic_swe/psychopy_exp/sound_recording_interrater_agreement"
There should be 156 sound files.

To launch the python script, hold shift + right-click on the folder 
"psychopy_exp" > select "Open PowerShell window here".
Write the following command into the PowerShell command line:

python .\annotate.py("sound_recording_interrater_agreement", "transcr_YourName")

Replace YourName with your initials (e.g., "PI", "MB").

Ctl+C to interrupt execution of the program.


How to manually edit the transcriptions file
--------------------------------------------

Once a transcription has been entered the python script will not play that
sound file anymore. If you want to revise and edit a transcription, you need to
open the file and change it manually:

- Open the file with SublimeText
- The file is in .tsv (tab separated value) format. It is essentially like a
spreadsheet where each column is separated by a tab.
- If you click on Ctrl+A (select all), you will see that the separators between
columns look like dashes. A tab is shown as a line/dash in SublimeText (when
the text is selected).
- It is very important that you respect those tabs if you edit the file manually.
If you remove a tab, the file will lose its structure.
- If necessary, it is also possible to remove a whole line from the file, in
which case the Python script will play it again and you will be able to
transcribe again.
